[Music]
hello and welcome to stern effects in
this video I'll show you how to optimize
an After Effects project with the help
of the composition profiler as well as
speed up renders using the work area and
region of
Interest now we all know that render
time can vary a lot sometimes it can be
hard to pinpoint exactly why some
project render faster than others the
after effects developers at Adobe use
the phrase all the pixels all the time
to refer to the underlying philosophy
behind the way that after effects
renders while there are several ways to
interpret exactly what this means one of
the ways to think about it is that all
the pixels in a lay are processed even
if they are not visible but how can we
tell which layer or effect is the cause
of this render hug and what can we do to
make it better and quicker well just
stick right here to find out first we
need a project to work with and if you
want you can use the same project that
I'll be using because it is a Free
Motion Graphics template that you can
download from Adobe stock I'll put the
link in the description and if you wish
you can license it yourself and then use
after effects to open it optimize it and
then export it again so it will be more
responsive in Premiere Pro so let me
show you how this works I'll hide my
browser
I have After Effects open with nothing
inside and then I'm going to go to the
file menu and choose open project I've
already downloaded this m gr file Motion
Graphics template and save it over here
on my desktop so I will select the file
and choose open after effects is going
to extract it into a folder and you can
name it whatever you want I'm just going
to leave the same name I'll choose
extract over here and after a few
moments the project is going to be
opened and I will get this warning that
this was created with an earlier version
and I need to convert it the original
file is not going to be changed all
right I'll click okay I'm also going to
switch back to my workspace I'll close
all of these over here as well as this
composition and this composition and
just go to the beginning I'm also going
to tidy up this timeline let's just scan
all the layers to see that everything is
okay there are no missing files here and
if I start to scrub it I can see how
this works and I can also see that
probably after this point there is
nothing interesting over here so the
first thing to do is to probably trim
the project and for that I'm going to
use the work area the work area is this
length which is determined by this bar
over here and this is a section that you
want to focus on preview or maybe even
rendered out so we can use this part on
the right to set the end of it or we can
go to where we want to end over here
let's say and press the letter N to set
the work area end we can do the same
thing for the beginning let's say that
we want to start over here we can place
our corrent time indicator and then
instead of dragging this work area start
we can use the letter B for the
beginning of the work area now there are
even
easier way to work let's say that you
want to select couple of layers so for
example I'm just going to go over here
and select this layer and trim it by
pressing the option and closing bracket
so now I have two layers or maybe few of
them that I want to select I'm just
going to command select both of them and
you can set the work area for selected
layers by pressing the command option b
this will be alt control B on the
Windows side all right so now that we
know all of this I'm just going to undo
few steps and because I already set the
working area for the place that I need
to worry about I'm going to right click
on it and ask after effects to trim the
comp to the work area and now let's just
fit our viewer and press space bar to
preview the
template so while I was working on it
after effect in the background cached
all the frames meaning that obviously we
can just scrub the timeline or just play
it the same way I just showed you but we
have a green bar although when we are
working with this template or bringing
it into premere Pro things are not going
to be so fast and to help us scrutinize
this composition we're going to use the
services of Oscar the snail which is
this guy over here at the footer of the
composition Oscar will show us the
information about the current frame
render time and if I'll click on him he
will expand a timeline column called
render time here you can see a breakdown
of each layer all of its masks layer
Styles and even individual effect so if
I'll open up this adjustment layer over
here as well as its effects we can see
which one of these effects takes the
most time to render now it's important
to mention that there is no performance
heat having the render time column
visible so you can feel free to work
with it displayed notice that some
layers won't show up in the render
column for example layers which are not
visible or switched off or invisible
objects such as Nils cameras and lights
however in the render time column over
here you'll get a colorcoded display of
how much time each layer that render
took to render and a bar graph of how
that compares to other layers on the
same
frame so the color coding system works
like this render times that are either
real time or half real time are
displayed as shades of green with higher
values from 100 milliseconds to 5
Seconds displayed as increasing
intensity from yellow to Red so let's
use this information to try to make this
comp more
efficient to do it I'll close this
adjustment layer for now and I'll go
over here to the end of this composition
and then I'll Purge the cache you can do
it by going to the edit menu and then
choose Purge all memory and disk cache
if you're using dis cache or just all
memory this is what I'll do because
there is a keyboard shortcut over here
so I'll make sure that after effect is
going to reender this Frame and I'm just
going to memorize the frame render time
over here which is just above 1 second
and we can also see it's a little bit of
an amber color meaning it's not real
time okay I can immediately see that we
have few track mats which are actually
pointing to the same layer so if I'll
increase the width of the track mat
column we can see that everything over
here is pointing to the same glitch
matte layer and I presume this is the
same because I see that the name of the
comp is similar so I'm just going to
double click on this and take a look
inside let's just zoom all the way to
the beginning yes I think that this is
the mat that everything here is using to
creating this glitch title
transition now in the recent versions of
After Effects we can be more efficient
so what we can do is select all those
layers and I'm going to select the
layers that are using this mat this
track mat so all of these and I'm going
to use the same layer as a single Source
by using the truck mat PE equip and
select let's say layer number four in
this case this means that I can now
select all the other copies and just
trash them and this is going to reduce
the amount of time after effect is going
to need to think about this and you can
already see that we are down to 100 than
18 milliseconds just by modifying this
little thing we can also further
investigate how this track map is being
used and as you can see it's only being
affecting the titles over here so this
means that this layer is probably too
big for what it needs to do if we are
only using just let's say this portion
of the image we may as well use the
region of interest to just select the
part that we are going to use so
something along those lines should be
enough to affect the titles in the main
comp and then we can go to the
composition menu and choose to crop this
comp to the region of interest and this
is going to reduce the size of this
composition meaning it should speed up
the preview as as well as the render
time of this main composition and the
appearance should look more or less the
same there are a few things that we can
also improve if we want to maybe change
a little bit the appearance over here so
again I'm going to go to the last frame
where everything is settled down and
then I'll take a look at the effect
controls because I can see that this is
one of the biggest render Hogs here this
adjustment layer with all of it effect
so curves is very fast un sharp mask and
CC lens those are not render demanding
effects but the camera lens blur is and
if you want and this is totally up to
you you can actually try an alternative
effect so I'm going to go to the effect
menu and under blur and sharpen I'm
going to try the compound blur effect
which is not going to look as beautiful
as the camera lens blare but it is much
faster F to render so I see the value
here is five and I'm using this layer
which is layer number two the blur ramp
as a blur map so first I'll choose these
I'm going to switch off the FX over here
and usually I'm going to cut down the
numbers by half so 2.5 for the maximum
blur now it's not again going to yield
the same result actually I think that I
also need to invert the Blair since this
is inverted over here and let's take a
snapshot so this is the compound blare
which is much faster you can tell by the
render time column over here I'm going
to grab a
snapshot and I'm going to switch it off
turn on the camera lens blare which
takes much longer time to render and
I'll compare between those two now again
this is up to you it's not going to
yield the same result the camera lens
blare is much more fancier and beautiful
but if you can leave with this effect
with this kind of blare then you can
save some time and as long as we are
seeing green values here we are actually
rendering things in almost real time at
this point you can bring the essential
Graphics panel on screen and you can
reexport this Motion Graphics template
and use it inside Premiere Pro and I
promise you it will be much more faster
and snappier now there are are few
things to take under account when you
are using the composition profiler
enabling draft 3D if you have 3D layers
is going to disable the composition
profiler and if the composition window
is hidden or closed the composition
profiler will go dormant now if you want
to learn more and dive deeper into all
the technical geeky stuff about this
feature I've included a link in the
description deson to a PDF that adobe
created that explains how this feature
is working in almost every scenario but
this is it I'm going to go to the
beginning and play for you the final
thing and summarize few important tools
to help you analyze the composition and
make it faster snappier and more
efficient if this information was useful
please like this video and
subscribe thank you also stay tuned for
more tutorials and check out the other
content in this channel
[Music]